**For Minecraft: Bedrock Edition 1.14.60**

### Note about API versions
Plugins which don't touch the protocol and compatible with any previous 3.x.y version will also run on these releases and do not need API bumps.
Plugin developers should **only** update their required API to this version if you need the changes in this build.

**WARNING: If your plugin uses the protocol, you're not shielded by API change constraints.** You should consider using the `mcpe-protocol` directive in `plugin.yml` as a constraint if you do.

# 3.12.0
- Added support for Minecraft: Bedrock Edition 1.14.60
- Removed compatibility with 1.14.0-1.14.30

# 3.12.1
- Fixed parsing of single-line doc comments for event handlers, e.g. `/** @ignoreCancelled */` should now work correctly.
- The server will no longer crash on failure to load `level.dat` contents, but will gracefully shutdown instead without producing a crashdump.
- Fixed some bugs in login verification that could cause undefined behaviour.
- Fixed item-use behaviour when sneaking - sneaking and clicking a block with an empty hand, and sneaking and using an item, both now follow vanilla behaviour.
- `start.sh` will now work on platforms where `/bin/bash` is not available, as long as `/usr/bin/env` knows where bash is.

# 3.12.2
- Fixed permission default timings not being reported in timings reports (they were never stopped, only started).
- Resource packs with a directory tree like `pack.zip/MyPack/manifest.json` are now supported. Note that the manifest closest to the root will be used.
- Fixed `SkinImage` height and width being inverted at the protocol layer.
- Fixed blocks being able to be placed inside the spawn protection radius by clicking the side of a block outside the radius.
- Fixed server crash when `network.compression-level` is overridden by a CLI parameter.
- Fixed moving entities spawning themselves to players registered on chunks when the players haven't received the chunk yet.
- Cocoa pods now drop cocoa beans when broken instead of the block itself.

# 3.12.3
- Core code is now analyzed using PHPStan level 8 (using baselines). While not all the code is level 8 compliant, this does mean that new code will be held to a higher standard, ensuring quality going forwards.
- Players no longer burn when melee-attacked by other players. (vanilla parity)
- Arrows shot by burning players are no longer on fire. (vanilla parity)
- Fixed a crash that could occur with plugins on Unix filesystems that had backslashes in their names.
- Cleaned up a whole bunch of unknowns in the protocol layer. Many new constants have been added.
- Fixed player walking sounds.
- Default generation queue size has been raised to 32 (previously 8). The previous default was selected in a time when PHP was much less performant than it is today, and in today's world it just needlessly slows things down.
- Double plants are now burned away by fire.
- Snow layers can now be stacked. (vanilla parity)
- Resource pack sending chunk size has been reduced to 128 KB (previously 1 MB). This change was made after analyzing the effects that larger pack chunk sizes have on RakNet. Given the technical evidence, a smaller size, while slightly less bandwidth-efficient, should be more manageable for RakNet due to lower split reassembly overhead and reduced memory pressure.
- Fixed "switching" (an exploit often complained about by PvP players). Now, the previous damage is subtracted from current damage when an entity is attacked while on cooldown. This means that attacking with a wooden sword and then diamond sword while attack cooldown is active will only deal as much damage as the diamond sword would have, instead of the combined total. This can be controlled using the `EntityDamageEvent::MODIFIER_PREVIOUS_DAMAGE_COOLDOWN` modifier. (vanilla parity)
- Fixed projectiles knocking mobs back in unexpected directions on collision.
- Fixed inventories not being synchronized on failed inventory transactions.
- Vector3s decoded from packets are no longer rounded directly. Instead, the player movement handler takes responsibility for rounding the coordinates to prevent anti cheat doing something it's not supposed to.
- `mobflame` particle can now be spawned using the `/particle` command.
- Fixed several internal errors that could occur while modifying writable books.
- Fixed swapping writable book pages not working in some cases.
- `WritableBook->getPageText()` no longer throws an exception when the page doesn't exist, but returns null (as it was originally intended to).

# 3.12.4
- Fixed absorption hearts not being consumed.

# 3.12.5
- Fixed broken attack cooldowns.

# 3.12.6
- Fixed entities not getting movement updates after teleports.
- Fixed slow flight in spectator mode when starting from the ground and after teleportation.
- Errors communicating with the crash archive on automatic crash submission are now logged.
