**For Minecraft: Bedrock Edition 1.11.0**

### Note
Plugins compatible with any previous 3.x.y version will also run on these releases and do not need API bumps. Plugin developers should **only** update their required API to this version if you need the changes in this build.

This changelog **does not account for protocol changes**. If your plugin uses the protocol, you're not shielded by API change constraints.

# 3.8.0
- Compatibility with Minecraft: Bedrock Edition 1.11.0
- Removed compatibility with 1.10.0

# 3.8.1
- Fixed furnace smelting recipes not working.
- Reduced legacy hacks dealing with `BatchPacket` to fix possible ID collisions.
- Reduced release phar size by minifying JSON data blobs.
- Moved some MCPE-specific JSON blobs to submodule.

# 3.8.2
- Fixed --enable-ansi and --disable-ansi not being respected on threads.
- Fixed a crash that could occur when decoding `AvailableCommandsPacket`.
- Fixed a crash when loading worlds with entities with missing `Motion` NBT tag.
- Fixed a crash when world time overflows signed int64 max.
- Fixed world generators and providers being registered too late (this was causing plugin issues).
- Updated RakLib version to get a security fix.
- Fixed errors when custom clients fill the wrong information in `ResourcePackClientResponsePacket`.
- Fixed `setImmobile()` getting overridden directly after `PlayerJoinEvent`.
- Fixed air being breakable by creative players.
- Fixed performance loss caused by bugs in the preprocessor.

# 3.8.3
- Fixed infinite recursion when using `Entity->close()` during `EntityDespawnEvent`.
- Fixed crash reports caused by folder plugins being reported to the crash archive.
- Fixed spawning entities on unloaded chunks during spawn sequence (possible client crash cause).
- Fixed `/time query` output message.
- Fixed `Server->hasOfflinePlayerData()` being case-sensitive.
- Improved error messages for skin validation in some places.
- Fixed classic stonecutter hardness.
- Fixed iron trapdoors being considered a valid furnace fuel.
- Fixed apple dropping from leaves happening less frequently than intended.
- Fixed tall plants like sunflower being replaceable by the top half.

# 3.8.4
- Plugin load order is now randomised to remove the ability to implicitly depend on filesystem-specific ordering.
- Packet logging in debug messages now uses base64 instead of hex (uses less space).
- Array and string size are now shown in error stack trace logs.
- Stack traces now render a maximum of 80 characters when making string parameters printable.
- Improved documentation for some transaction classes.
- Action order in inventory transactions is now randomised to prevent dependencies on any accidental or client-dependent ordering. Since the transaction system is specifically designed to avoid depending on order, this does not affect any core functionality.

# 3.8.5
- Moved preprocessor to build/ directory.
- Added documentation for `Server->getPlayer()`, `Server->getPlayerExact()` and `Server->matchPlayer()`.
- `server.lock` now contains the PID of the currently-running server.
- PID of server is now reported in the error message when attempting to run two servers from the same data directory at once.
- Fixed sluggish playercount updating on MOTD.
- Added new MultiRecipe UUIDs.
