# 4.0.0-SNAPSHOT-1907XX (2019-07-XX)

This major version features substantial changes throughout the core, including significant API changes, new world format support, performance improvements and a network revamp.

## Contents
  * [Core](#core)
    + [General](#general)
    + [Configuration](#configuration)
    + [World handling](#world-handling)
      - [Interface](#interface)
      - [Functional](#functional)
      - [Performance](#performance)
    + [Logger revamp](#logger-revamp)
    + [Network](#network)
      - [Minecraft Bedrock packet encryption](#minecraft-bedrock-packet-encryption)
      - [Packet receive error handling has been overhauled](#packet-receive-error-handling-has-been-overhauled)
      - [New packet handler system](#new-packet-handler-system)
  * [API](#api)
    + [General](#general-1)
    + [Changes to `plugin.yml`](#changes-to-pluginyml)
      - [Permission nesting](#permission-nesting)
      - [`src-namespace-prefix`](#src-namespace-prefix)
    + [Block](#block)
    + [Command](#command)
    + [Entity](#entity)
      - [General](#general-2)
      - [Effect](#effect)
      - [Removal of runtime entity NBT](#removal-of-runtime-entity-nbt)
      - [Entity creation](#entity-creation)
      - [WIP removal of entity network metadata](#wip-removal-of-entity-network-metadata)
    + [Event](#event)
      - [Internal event system no longer depends on `Listener`s](#internal-event-system-no-longer-depends-on-listeners)
      - [Default cancelled handling behaviour has changed](#default-cancelled-handling-behaviour-has-changed)
      - [`PlayerPreLoginEvent` changes](#playerpreloginevent-changes)
      - [Other changes](#other-changes)
    + [Inventory](#inventory)
    + [Item](#item)
      - [General](#general-3)
      - [NBT handling](#nbt-handling)
      - [Enchantment](#enchantment)
    + [Lang](#lang)
    + [Network](#network-1)
    + [Permission](#permission)
    + [Player](#player)
    + [Plugin](#plugin)
    + [Scheduler](#scheduler)
      - [Thread-local storage for AsyncTasks](#thread-local-storage-for-asynctasks)
      - [Other changes](#other-changes-1)
    + [Server](#server)
    + [Level / World](#level--world)
      - [General](#general-4)
      - [Particles](#particles)
      - [Sounds](#sounds)
    + [Utils](#utils)
  * [Gameplay](#gameplay)
    + [Blocks](#blocks)
    + [Items](#items)

<small><i><a href='http://ecotrust-canada.github.io/markdown-toc/'>Table of contents generated with markdown-toc</a></i></small>

## Core
### General
- A new "plugin greylist" feature has been introduced, which allows whitelisting or blacklisting plugins from loading.
- The `/reload` command has been removed.
- The `/effect` command no longer supports numeric IDs - it's now required to use names.
- The `/enchant` command no longer supports numeric IDs - it's now required to use names.
- Added `/clear` command with functionality equivalent to that of vanilla Minecraft.
- Remote console (RCON) has been removed. The [RconServer](https://github.com/pmmp/RconServer) plugin is provided as a substitute.
- Spawn protection has been removed. The [BasicSpawnProtection](https://github.com/pmmp/BasicSpawnProtection) plugin is provided as a substitute.
- CTRL+C signal handling has been removed. The [PcntlSignalHandler](https://github.com/pmmp/PcntlSignalHandler) plugin is provided as a substitute.
- Player movement anti-cheat has been removed.
- GS4 Query no longer breaks when disabling RakLib.
- The `pocketmine_chunkutils` PHP extension has been dropped.
- New PHP extensions are required by this version:
  - [chunkutils2](https://github.com/pmmp/ext-chunkutils2)
  - [morton](https://github.com/pmmp/ext-morton)
- Many bugs in player respawning have been fixed, including:
  - Spawning underneath bedrock when spawn position referred to ungenerated terrain
  - Spawning underneath bedrock on first server join on very slow machines (or when the machine was under very high load)
  - Spawning inside blocks (or above the ground) when respawning with a custom spawn position set
  - Player spawn positions sticking to the old location when world spawn position changed - this was because the world spawn at time of player creation was used as the player's custom spawn, so the bug will persist for older player data, but will work as expected for new players.

### Configuration
- World presets can now be provided as a `preset` key in `pocketmine.yml`, instead of putting them in the `generator` key.
- The following new options have been added to `pocketmine.yml`:
  - `chunk-ticking.blocks-per-subchunk-per-tick` (default `3`): Increasing this value will increase the rate at which random block updates happen (e.g. grass growth).
  - `network.enable-encryption` (default `true`): Controls whether Minecraft network packets are encrypted or not.
- The following options have been removed from `pocketmine.yml`:
  - `chunk-ticking.light-updates`: Since lighting is needed for basic vanilla functionality to work, allowing this to be disabled without disabling chunk ticking made no sense. If you don't want light calculation to occur, you can disable chunk ticking altogether.
  - `player.anti-cheat.allow-movement-cheats`

### World handling
#### Interface
- Progress of spawn terrain chunk generation is now logged during initial world creation.

#### Functional
- Minecraft Bedrock worlds up to 1.12.x are now supported. (1.13+ are still **not supported** due to yet another format change, which is large and requires a lot of work).
- Automatic conversion of deprecated world formats is now implemented.
- All formats except `leveldb` have been deprecated. The following world formats will be **automatically converted on load to a new format**:
  - `mcregion`
  - `anvil`
  - `pmanvil`
- 256 build-height is now supported in all worlds (facilitated by automatic conversion).
- Extended blocks are now supported (facilitated by automatic conversion).
- Lighting is no longer stored or loaded from disk - instead, it's calculated on the fly as-needed. This fixes many long-standing bugs.

#### Performance
- `leveldb` is now the primary supported world format. It is inherently faster than region-based formats thanks to better design.
- Partial chunk saves (only saving modified subcomponents of chunks) has been implemented. This drastically reduces the amount of data that is usually necessary to write on chunk save, which in turn **drastically reduces the time to complete world saves**. This is possible thanks to the modular design of the `leveldb` world format - this enhancement is not possible with region-based formats.
- Lighting is no longer guaranteed to be available on every chunk. It's now calculated on the fly as-needed.
- `/op`, `/deop`, `/whitelist add` and `/whitelist remove` no longer cause player data to be loaded from disk for no reason.
- Timings now use high-resolution timers provided by `hrtime()` to collect more accurate performance metrics.
- Z-order curves (morton codes) are now used for block and chunk coordinate hashes. This substantially improves performance in many areas by resolving a hashtable key hash collision performance issue. Affected areas include explosions, light calculation, and more.
- [`libdeflate`](https://github.com/ebiggers/libdeflate) is now (optionally) used for outbound Minecraft packet compression. It's more than twice as fast as zlib in most cases, providing significant performance boosts to packet broadcasts and overall network performance.
- Closures are now used for internal event handler calls. This provides a performance improvement of 10-20% over the 3.x system, which had to dynamically resolve callables for every event call.

### Logger revamp
- Many components now have a dedicated logger which automatically adds [prefixes] to their messages.
- Main logger now includes milliseconds in timestamps.

### Network
This version features substantial changes to the network system, improving coherency, reliability and modularity.

#### Minecraft Bedrock packet encryption
- This fixes replay attacks where hackers steal and replay player logins.
- A new setting has been added to `pocketmine.yml`: `network.enable-encryption` which is `true` by default.

#### Packet receive error handling has been overhauled
- Only `BadPacketException` is now caught during packet decode and handling. This requires that all decoding MUST perform proper data error checking.
  - Throwing a `BadPacketException` from decoding will now cause players to be kicked with the message `Packet processing error`.
  - The disconnect message includes a random hex ID to help server owners identify the problems reported by their players.
- Throwing any other exception will now cause a server crash. `Internal server error` has been removed.
- It is now illegal to send a clientbound packet to the server. Doing so will result in the client being kicked with the message `Unexpected non-serverbound packet`.

#### New packet handler system
- Packet handlers have been separated from NetworkSession into a dedicated packet handler structure.
- A network session may have exactly 1 handler at a time, which is mutable and may be replaced at any time. This allows packet handling logic to be broken up into multiple stages:
  - preventing undefined behaviour when sending wrong packets at the wrong time (they'll now be silently dropped)
  - allowing the existence of ephemeral state-specific logic (for example stricter resource packs download checks)
- Packet handlers are now almost entirely absent from `Player` and instead appear in their own dedicated units.
- Almost all game logic that was previously locked up inside packet handlers in `Player` has been extracted into new API methods. See Player API changes for details.

## API
### General
- Most places which previously allowed `callable` now only allow `\Closure`. This is because closures have more consistent behaviour and are more performant.
- `void` and `?nullable` parameter and return types have been applied in many places.
- Everything in the `pocketmine\metadata` namespace and related implementations have been removed.

### Changes to `plugin.yml`
#### Permission nesting
Permission nesting is no longer supported in `plugin.yml`. Grouping permissions (with defaults) in `plugin.yml` had very confusing and inconsistent behaviour.
Instead of nesting permission declarations, they should each be declared separately.

_Before_:
```
permissions:
   pmmp:
     default: op
	 children:
	     pmmp.something:
		     default: op
         pmmp.somethingElse
		     default: op
```

_After_:
```
permissions:
    pmmp.something:
        default: op
    pmmp.somethingElse
        default: op
```

#### `src-namespace-prefix`
A new directive `src-namespace-prefix` has been introduced. This allows you to get rid of those useless subdirectories in a plugin's structure.
For example, a plugin whose main was `pmmp\TesterPlugin\Main` used to have to be structured like this:
```
|-- plugin.yml
|-- src/
    |-- pmmp/
        |-- TesterPlugin/
            |-- Main.php
            |-- SomeOtherClass.php
            |-- SomeNamespace/
                |-- SomeNamespacedClass.php
```
However, if we add `src-namespace-prefix: pmmp\TesterPlugin` to the `plugin.yml`, now we can get rid of the useless directories and structure it like this instead:
```
|-- plugin.yml
|-- src/
    |-- Main.php
    |-- SomeOtherClass.php
    |-- SomeNamespace/
        |-- SomeNamespacedClass.php
```

**Note**: The old structure will also still work just fine. This is not a required change.

### Block
- A new `VanillaBlocks` class has been added, which contains static methods for creating any currently-known block type. This should be preferred instead of use of `BlockFactory::get()` where constants were used.
- Blocks now contain their positions instead of extending `Position`. `Block->getPos()` has been added.
- Blocks with IDs >= 256 are now supported.
- Block state and variant metadata have been separated.
  - Variant is considered an extension of ID and is immutable.
  - `Block->setDamage()` has been removed. `Block->readStateFromData()` is now used for state deserialization.
- Tile entities are now created and deleted automatically when `World->setBlock()` is used with a block that requires a tile entity.
- Some tile entities' API has been exposed on their corresponding `Block` classes, with the tile entity classes being deprecated.
- The `pocketmine\tile` namespace has been relocated to `pocketmine\block\tile`.
- `Block->recalculateBoundingBox()` and `Block->recalculateCollisionBoxes()` are now expected to return AABBs relative to `0,0,0` instead of their own position.
- Block break-info has been extracted into a new dynamic `BlockBreakInfo` unit. The following methods have been moved:
  - `Block->getBlastResistance()` -> `BlockBreakInfo->getBlastResistance()`
  - `Block->getBreakTime()` -> `BlockBreakInfo->getBreakTime()`
  - `Block->getHardness()` -> `BlockBreakInfo->getHardness()`
  - `Block->getToolHarvestLevel()` -> `BlockBreakInfo->getToolHarvestLevel()`
  - `Block->getToolType()` -> `BlockBreakInfo->getToolType()`
  - `Block->isBreakable()` -> `BlockBreakInfo->isBreakable()`
  - `Block->isCompatibleWithTool()` -> `BlockBreakInfo->isToolCompatible()`
- The following API methods have been added:
  - `Block->asItem()`: returns an itemstack corresponding to the block
  - `Block->isSameState()`: returns whether the block is the same as the parameter, including state information
  - `Block->isSameType()`: returns whether the block is the same as the parameter, without state information
  - `Block->isFullCube()`
- The following hooks have been added:
  - `Block->onAttack()`: called when a player in survival left-clicks the block to try to start breaking it
  - `Block->onPostPlace()`: called directly after placement in the world, handles things like rail connections and chest pairing
- The following API methods have been renamed:
  - `Block->getDamage()` -> `Block->getMeta()`
  - `Block->onActivate()` -> `Block->onInteract()`
  - `Block->onEntityCollide()` -> `Block->onEntityInside()`
- The following API methods have changed signatures:
  - `Block->onInteract()` now has the signature `onInteract(Item $item, int $face, Vector3 $clickVector, ?Player $player = null) : bool`
  - `Block->getCollisionBoxes()` is now final. Classes should override `recalculateCollisionBoxes()`.
- The following API methods have been removed:
  - `Block->canPassThrough()`
  - `Block->setDamage()`
  - `Block::get()`: this was superseded by `BlockFactory::get()` a long time ago
  - `Block->getBoundingBox()`
- The following classes have been renamed:
  - `BlockIds` -> `BlockLegacyIds`
  - `CobblestoneWall` -> `Wall`
  - `NoteBlock` -> `Note`
  - `SignPost` -> `Sign`
  - `StandingBanner` -> `Banner`
- The following classes have been removed:
  - `Bricks`
  - `BurningFurnace`
  - `CobblestoneStairs`
  - `Dandelion`
  - `DoubleSlab`
  - `DoubleStoneSlab`
  - `EndStone`
  - `GlowingRedstoneOre`
  - `GoldOre`
  - `Gold`
  - `IronDoor`
  - `IronOre`
  - `IronTrapdoor`
  - `Iron`
  - `Lapis`
  - `NetherBrickFence`
  - `NetherBrickStairs`
  - `Obsidian`
  - `PurpurStairs`
  - `Purpur`
  - `QuartzStairs`
  - `Quartz`
  - `RedSandstoneStairs`
  - `RedSandstone`
  - `SandstoneStairs`
  - `Sandstone`
  - `StainedClay`
  - `StainedGlassPane`
  - `StainedGlass`
  - `StoneBrickStairs`
  - `StoneBricks`
  - `StoneSlab2`
  - `StoneSlab`
  - `Stone`
  - `WallBanner`
  - `WallSign`
  - `Wood2`
- `BlockToolType` constants have been renamed to remove the `TYPE_` prefix.

### Command
- The following classes have been removed:
  - `RemoteConsoleCommandSender`
- The following API methods have signature changes:
  - `Command->setPermission()` argument is now mandatory (but still nullable).
  - `CommandSender->setScreenLineHeight()` argument is now mandatory (but still nullable).

### Entity
#### General
- `Entity` no longer extends from `Location`. `Entity->getLocation()` and `Entity->getPosition()` should be used instead.
- The following public fields have been removed:
  - `Entity->chunk`: Entities no longer know which chunk they are in (the `World` now manages this instead).
  - `Entity->height`: moved to `EntitySizeInfo`; use `Entity->size` instead
  - `Entity->width`: moved to `EntitySizeInfo`; use `Entity->size` instead
  - `Entity->eyeHeight`: moved to `EntitySizeInfo`; use `Entity->size` instead
- The following API methods have been added:
  - `ItemEntity->getDespawnDelay()`
  - `ItemEntity->setDespawnDelay()`
  - `Human->getHungerManager()`
  - `Human->getXpManager()`
- The following methods have signature changes:
  - `Entity->entityBaseTick()` is now `protected`.
  - `Entity->move()` is now `protected`.
  - `Living->knockBack()` now accepts `float, float, float` (the first two parameters have been removed).
  - `Living->getEffects()` now returns `EffectManager` instead of `Effect[]`.
- The following classes have been added:
  - `effect\EffectManager`: contains effect-management functionality extracted from `Living`
  - `HungerManager`: contains hunger-management functionality extracted from `Human`
  - `ExperienceManager`: contains XP-management functionality extracted from `Human`
- The following API methods have been moved / renamed:
  - `Living->removeAllEffects()` -> `EffectManager->clear()`
  - `Living->removeEffect()` -> `EffectManager->remove()`
  - `Living->addEffect()` -> `EffectManager->add()`
  - `Living->getEffect()` -> `EffectManager->get()`
  - `Living->hasEffect()` -> `EffectManager->has()`
  - `Living->hasEffects()` -> `EffectManager->hasEffects()`
  - `Living->getEffects()` -> `EffectManager->all()`
  - `Human->getFood()` -> `HungerManager->getFood()`
  - `Human->setFood()` -> `HungerManager->setFood()`
  - `Human->getMaxFood()` -> `HungerManager->getMaxFood()`
  - `Human->addFood()` -> `HungerManager->addFood()`
  - `Human->isHungry()` -> `HungerManager->isHungry()`
  - `Human->getSaturation()` -> `HungerManager->getSaturation()`
  - `Human->setSaturation()` -> `HungerManager->setSaturation()`
  - `Human->addSaturation()` -> `HungerManager->addSaturation()`
  - `Human->getExhaustion()` -> `HungerManager->getExhaustion()`
  - `Human->setExhaustion()` -> `HungerManager->setExhaustion()`
  - `Human->exhaust()` -> `HungerManager->exhaust()`
  - `Human->getXpLevel()` -> `ExperienceManager->getXpLevel()`
  - `Human->setXpLevel()` -> `ExperienceManager->setXpLevel()`
  - `Human->addXpLevels()` -> `ExperienceManager->addXpLevels()`
  - `Human->subtractXpLevels()` -> `ExperienceManager->subtractXpLevels()`
  - `Human->getXpProgress()` -> `ExperienceManager->getXpProgress()`
  - `Human->setXpProgress()` -> `ExperienceManager->setXpProgress()`
  - `Human->getRemainderXp()` -> `ExperienceManager->getRemainderXp()`
  - `Human->getCurrentTotalXp()` -> `ExperienceManager->getCurrentTotalXp()`
  - `Human->setCurrentTotalXp()` -> `ExperienceManager->setCurrentTotalXp()`
  - `Human->addXp()` -> `ExperienceManager->addXp()`
  - `Human->subtractXp()` -> `ExperienceManager->subtractXp()`
  - `Human->getLifetimeTotalXp()` -> `ExperienceManager->getLifetimeTotalXp()`
  - `Human->setLifetimeTotalXp()` -> `ExperienceManager->setLifetimeTotalXp()`
  - `Human->canPickupXp()` -> `ExperienceManager->canPickupXp()`
  - `Human->onPickupXp()` -> `ExperienceManager->onPickupXp()`
  - `Human->resetXpCooldown()` -> `ExperienceManager->resetXpCooldown()`
- The following API methods have been removed:
  - `Human->getRawUniqueId()`: use `Human->getUniqueId()->toBinary()` instead
- The following classes have been removed:
  - `Creature`
  - `Damageable`
  - `Monster`
  - `NPC`
  - `Rideable`
  - `Vehicle`
- `Skin` now throws exceptions on creation if given invalid data.

#### Effect
- All `Effect` related classes have been moved to the `pocketmine\entity\effect` namespace.
- Effect functionality embedded in the `Effect` class has been separated out into several classes. The following classes have been added:
  - `AbsorptionEffect`
  - `HealthBoostEffect`
  - `HungerEffect`
  - `InstantDamageEffect`
  - `InstantEffect`
  - `InstantHealthEffect`
  - `InvisibilityEffect`
  - `LevitationEffect`
  - `PoisonEffect`
  - `RegenerationEffect`
  - `SaturationEffect`
  - `SlownessEffect`
  - `SpeedEffect`
  - `WitherEffect`
- `VanillaEffects` class has been added. This exposes all vanilla effect types as static methods, replacing the old `Effect::getEffect()` nastiness.
  - Example: `Effect::getEffect(Effect::NIGHT_VISION)` can be replaced by `VanillaEffects::NIGHT_VISION()`.
- Negative effect amplifiers are now explicitly disallowed due to undefined behaviour they created.
- The boundaries between MCPE effect IDs and PocketMine-MP internals are now more clear.
  - ID handling is moved to `pocketmine\data\bedrock\EffectIdMap`.
  - All effect ID constants have been removed from `Effect`. `pocketmine\data\bedrock\EffectIds` if you still need legacy effect IDs for some reason.
- The following API methods have been moved:
  - `Effect->getId()` -> `EffectIdMap->toId()`
  - `Effect::registerEffect()` -> `EffectIdMap->register()`
  - `Effect::getEffect()` -> `EffectIdMap->fromId()`
  - `Effect::getEffectByName()` -> `VanillaEffects::fromString()`
- The following API methods have been added:
  - `Effect->getRuntimeId()`: this is a **dynamic ID** which can be used for effect type comparisons. **This cannot be stored, so don't use it in configs or NBT!**

#### Removal of runtime entity NBT
- Entities no longer keep their NBT alive at runtime.
  - `Entity->namedtag` has been removed.
  - `Entity->saveNBT()` now returns a newly created `CompoundTag` instead of modifying the previous one in-place.
  - `Entity->initEntity()` now accepts a `CompoundTag` parameter.

#### Entity creation
- `Entity::createEntity()` has been removed. It's no longer needed for creating new entities at runtime - just use `new YourEntity` instead.
- `Entity` subclass constructors can now have any signature, just like a normal class.
- Loading entities from NBT is now handled by `EntityFactory`. It works quite a bit differently than `Entity::createEntity()` did. Instead of registering `YourEntity::class` to a set of Minecraft save IDs, you now need to provide a callback which will construct an entity when given some NBT and a `World`.
  - The creation callback is registered using `EntityFactory::register()`.
  - The creation callback must have the signature `function(World, CompoundTag) : Entity`.
  - This enables `Entity` subclasses to have any constructor parameters they like.
  - It also allows requiring that certain data is always provided (for example, it doesn't make much sense to create a `FallingBlock` without specifying what type of block).
  - Examples:
    - `ItemEntity` now requires an `Item` in its constructor, so its creation callback decodes the `Item` from the NBT to be passed to the constructor.
    - `Painting` now requires a `PaintingMotive` in its constructor, so its creation callback decides which `PaintingMotive` to provide based on the NBT it receives.
    - See `EntityFactory` for more examples.
- `EntityFactory::register()` (previously `Entity::registerEntity()`) will now throw exceptions on error cases instead of returning `false`.
- The following API methods have been moved:
  - `Entity::registerEntity()` -> `EntityFactory::register()`
- The following classes have changed constructors:
  - All projectile subclasses now require a `?Entity $thrower` parameter.
  - `Arrow->__construct()` now requires a `bool $critical` parameter (in addition to the `$thrower` parameter).
  - `ExperienceOrb->__construct()` now requires a `int $xpValue` parameter.
  - `FallingBlock->__construct()` now requires a `Block $block` parameter.
  - `ItemEntity->__construct()` now requires an `Item $item` parameter.
  - `Painting->__construct()` now requires a `PaintingMotive $motive` parameter.
  - `SplashPotion->__construct()` now requires a `int $potionId` parameter.
- The following API methods have been removed:
  - `Entity::createBaseNBT()`: `new YourEntity` and appropriate API methods should be used instead
  - `Entity->getSaveId()`
  - `Entity::getKnownEntityTypes()`
  - `Entity::createEntity()`: use `new YourEntity` instead (to be reviewed)

#### WIP removal of entity network metadata
- All network metadata related constants have been removed from the `Entity` class and moved to the protocol layer. It is intended to remove network metadata from the API entirely, but this has not yet been completed.
  - `Entity::DATA_FLAG_*` constants have been moved to `pocketmine\network\mcpe\protocol\types\entity\EntityMetadataFlags`.
  - `Entity::DATA_TYPE_*` constants have been moved to `pocketmine\network\mcpe\protocol\types\entity\EntityMetadataTypes`.
  - `Entity::DATA_*` constants have been moved to `pocketmine\network\mcpe\protocol\types\entity\EntityMetadataProperties`.
- `DataPropertyManager` has been moved to the `pocketmine\network\mcpe\protocol\types\entity` namespace, and as such isn't considered part of the API anymore.
- Introduced internal `Entity` hook `syncNetworkData()`. This function is expected to synchronize entity properties with the entity's network data set.
- Internal usage of network metadata sets to store internal entity properties has been removed. Entities are now expected to use regular class properties and synchronize with the network data set as-asked.
- `Entity->propertyManager` has been renamed to `Entity->networkProperties`.
- `Entity->getDataPropertyManager()` has been renamed to `Entity->getNetworkProperties()`.

### Event
#### Internal event system no longer depends on `Listener`s
- The internal event processing system no longer depends on `Listener` objects. Arbitrary closures can now be used, provided that they satisfy the standard requirements to be a handler.
  - This change improves performance of event handler calling by approximately 15%. This does not include anything plugins are doing.
  - The following classes have been removed:
    - `pocketmine\plugin\EventExecutor`
    - `pocketmine\plugin\MethodEventExecutor`
  - `RegisteredListener->__construct()` now requires `Closure` instead of `Listener, EventExecutor` as the leading parameters.
  - `RegisteredListener->getListener()` has been removed.

#### Default cancelled handling behaviour has changed
- Handler functions will now **not receive cancelled events by default**. This is a **silent BC break**, i.e. it won't raise errors, but it might cause bugs.
- `@ignoreCancelled` is now no longer respected.
- `@handleCancelled` has been added. This allows opting _into_ receiving cancelled events (it's the opposite of `@ignoreCancelled`).

#### `PlayerPreLoginEvent` changes
- The `Player` object no longer exists at this phase of the login. Instead, a `PlayerInfo` object is provided, along with connection information.
- Ban, server-full and whitelist checks are now centralized to `PlayerPreLoginEvent`. It's no longer necessary (or possible) to intercept `PlayerKickEvent` to handle these types of disconnects.
  - Multiple kick reasons may be set to ensure that the player is still removed if there are other reasons for them to be disconnected and one of them is cleared. For example, if a player is banned and the server is full, clearing the ban flag will still cause the player to be disconnected because the server is full.
  - Plugins may set custom kick reasons. Any custom reason has absolute priority.
  - If multiple flags are set, the kick message corresponding to the highest priority reason will be shown. The priority (as of this snapshot) is as follows:
    - Custom (highest priority)
    - Server full
    - Whitelisted
    - Banned
  - The `PlayerPreLoginEvent::KICK_REASON_PRIORITY` constant contains a list of kick reason priorities, highest first.
- The following constants have been added:
  - `PlayerPreLoginEvent::KICK_REASON_PLUGIN`
  - `PlayerPreLoginEvent::KICK_REASON_SERVER_FULL`
  - `PlayerPreLoginEvent::KICK_REASON_SERVER_WHITELISTED`
  - `PlayerPreLoginEvent::KICK_REASON_BANNED`
  - `PlayerPreLoginEvent::KICK_REASON_PRIORITY`: ordered list of kick reason priorities, highest first
- The following API methods have been added:
  - `PlayerPreLoginEvent->clearAllKickReasons()`
  - `PlayerPreLoginEvent->clearKickReason()`
  - `PlayerPreLoginEvent->getFinalKickMessage()`: the message to be shown to the player with the current reason list in place
  - `PlayerPreLoginEvent->getIp()`
  - `PlayerPreLoginEvent->getKickReasons()`: returns an array of flags indicating kick reasons, must be empty to allow joining
  - `PlayerPreLoginEvent->getPlayerInfo()`
  - `PlayerPreLoginEvent->getPort()`
  - `PlayerPreLoginEvent->isAllowed()`
  - `PlayerPreLoginEvent->isAuthRequired()`: whether XBL authentication will be enforced
  - `PlayerPreLoginEvent->isKickReasonSet()`
  - `PlayerPreLoginEvent->setAuthRequired()`
  - `PlayerPreLoginEvent->setKickReason()`
- The following API methods have been changed:
  - `PlayerPreLoginEvent->getKickMessage()` now has the signature `getKickMessage(int $flag) : ?string`
- The following API methods have been removed:
  - `PlayerPreLoginEvent->setKickMessage()`
  - `PlayerPreLoginEvent->getPlayer()`
- The following API methods have been moved / renamed:
  - `InventoryPickupItemEvent->getItem()` -> `InventoryPickupItemEvent->getItemEntity()`

#### Other changes
- Disconnecting players during events no longer crashes the server (although it might cause other side effects).
- `PlayerKickEvent` is no longer fired for disconnects that occur before the player completes the initial login sequence (i.e. completing downloading resource packs).
- Cancellable events must now implement `CancellableTrait` to get the cancellable components needed to satisfy interface requirements. `Event` no longer stubs these methods.
- `PlayerInteractEvent` is no longer fired when a player activates an item. This fixes the age-old complaint of `PlayerInteractEvent` firing multiple times when interacting once. The following constants have been removed:
  - `PlayerInteractEvent::LEFT_CLICK_AIR`
  - `PlayerInteractEvent::RIGHT_CLICK_AIR`
  - `PlayerInteractEvent::PHYSICAL`
- The following events have been added:
  - `PlayerItemUseEvent`: player activating their held item, for example to throw it.
  - `BlockTeleportEvent`: block teleporting, for example dragon egg when attacked.
  - `PlayerDisplayNameChangeEvent`
- The following events have been removed:
  - `EntityArmorChangeEvent`
  - `EntityInventoryChangeEvent`
  - `EntityLevelChangeEvent` - `EntityTeleportEvent` with world checks should be used instead.
  - `NetworkInterfaceCrashEvent`
  - `PlayerCheatEvent`
  - `PlayerIllegalMoveEvent`
- The following API methods have been added:
  - `EntityDeathEvent->getXpDropAmount()`
  - `EntityDeathEvent->setXpDropAmount()`
  - `PlayerDeathEvent->getXpDropAmount()`
  - `PlayerDeathEvent->setXpDropAmount()`
- The following API methods have been removed:
  - `PlayerPreLoginEvent->getPlayer()`
  - `Cancellable->setCancelled()`: this allows implementors of `Cancellable` to implement their own cancellation mechanisms, such as the complex one in `PlayerPreLoginEvent`
- The following API methods have been moved:
  - `Event->isCancelled()` -> `CancellableTrait->isCancelled()`: this was a stub which threw `BadMethodCallException` if the class didn't implement `Cancellable`; now this is simply not available on non-cancellable events
  - `Event->setCancelled()` has been split into `cancel()` and `uncancel()`, and moved to `CancellableTrait`
  - `HandlerList::unregisterAll()` -> `HandlerListManager->unregisterAll()`
  - `HandlerList::getHandlerListFor()` -> `HandlerListManager->getListFor()`
  - `HandlerList::getHandlerLists()` -> `HandlerListManager->getAll()`
- The following classes have been moved:
  - `pocketmine\plugin\RegisteredListener` -> `pocketmine\event\RegisteredListener`

### Inventory
- All crafting and recipe related classes have been moved to the `pocketmine\crafting` namespace.
- The following classes have been added:
  - `CallbackInventoryChangeListener`
  - `CreativeInventory`: contains the creative functionality previously embedded in `pocketmine\item\Item`, see Item changes for details
  - `InventoryChangeListener`: allows listening (but not interfering with) events in an inventory.
  - `transaction\CreateItemAction`
  - `transaction\DestroyItemAction`
- The following classes have been renamed / moved:
  - `ContainerInventory` -> `pocketmine\block\inventory\BlockInventory`
- The following classes have been moved to the `pocketmine\block\inventory` namespace:
  - `AnvilInventory`
  - `ChestInventory`
  - `DoubleChestInventory`
  - `EnchantInventory`
  - `EnderChestInventory`
  - `FurnaceInventory`
- The following classes have been removed:
  - `CustomInventory`
  - `InventoryEventProcessor`
  - `Recipe`
  - `transaction\CreativeInventoryAction`
- The following API methods have been added:
  - `Inventory->addChangeListeners()`
  - `Inventory->getChangeListeners()`
  - `Inventory->removeChangeListeners()`
  - `Inventory->swap()`: swaps the contents of two slots
- The following API methods have been removed:
  - `BaseInventory->getDefaultSize()`
  - `BaseInventory->setSize()`
  - `Inventory->close()`
  - `Inventory->dropContents()`
  - `Inventory->getName()`
  - `Inventory->getTitle()`
  - `Inventory->onSlotChange()`
  - `Inventory->open()`
  - `Inventory->sendContents()`
  - `Inventory->sendSlot()`
  - `InventoryAction->onExecuteFail()`
  - `InventoryAction->onExecuteSuccess()`
  - `PlayerInventory->sendCreativeContents()`
- The following API methods have signature changes:
  - `Inventory->clear()` now returns `void` instead of `bool`.
  - `Inventory->setItem()` now returns `void` instead of `bool`.
  - `InventoryAction->execute()` now returns `void` instead of `bool`.
  - `BaseInventory->construct()` no longer accepts a list of items to initialize with.
- `PlayerInventory->setItemInHand()` now sends the update to viewers of the player.

### Item
#### General
- A new `VanillaItems` class has been added, which contains static methods for creating any currently-known item type. This should be preferred instead of use of `ItemFactory::get()` where constants were used.
- `Item->count` is no longer public.
- The hierarchy of writable books has been changed: `WritableBook` and `WrittenBook` now extend `WritableBookBase`.
- The following API methods have signature changes:
  - `WritableBookBase->setPages()` now accepts `WritableBookPage[]` instead of `CompoundTag[]`.
  - `ItemFactory::get()` no longer accepts `string` for the `tags` parameter.
  - `ItemFactory::fromString()` no longer accepts a `$multiple` parameter and now only returns `Item`, not `Item|Item[]`.
- The following methods are now fluent:
  - `WritableBookBase->setPages()`
  - `Item->addEnchantment()`
  - `Item->removeEnchantment()`
  - `Item->removeEnchantments()`
  - `Armor->setCustomColor()`
  - `WrittenBook->setTitle()`
  - `WrittenBook->setAuthor()`
  - `WrittenBook->setGeneration()`
- The following API methods have been removed:
  - `Item->getNamedTagEntry()`
  - `Item->removeNamedTagEntry()`
  - `Item->setDamage()`: "Damage" is now immutable for all items except `Durable` descendents.
  - `Item->setNamedTagEntry()`
  - `Item::get()`: this was superseded by `ItemFactory::get()` a long time ago
  - `Item::fromString()`: this was superseded by `ItemFactory::fromString()` a long time ago
  - `Item->setCompoundTag()`
  - `Item->getCompoundTag()`
  - `Item->hasCompoundTag()`
  - `Potion::getPotionEffectsById()`
  - `ProjectileItem->getProjectileEntityType()`
- The following constants have been removed:
  - `Potion::ALL` - use `PotionType::getAll()` instead
  - `Potion::WATER`
  - `Potion::MUNDANE`
  - `Potion::LONG_MUNDANE`
  - `Potion::THICK`
  - `Potion::AWKWARD`
  - `Potion::NIGHT_VISION`
  - `Potion::LONG_NIGHT_VISION`
  - `Potion::INVISIBILITY`
  - `Potion::LONG_INVISIBILITY`
  - `Potion::LEAPING`
  - `Potion::LONG_LEAPING`
  - `Potion::STRONG_LEAPING`
  - `Potion::FIRE_RESISTANCE`
  - `Potion::LONG_FIRE_RESISTANCE`
  - `Potion::SWIFTNESS`
  - `Potion::LONG_SWIFTNESS`
  - `Potion::STRONG_SWIFTNESS`
  - `Potion::SLOWNESS`
  - `Potion::LONG_SLOWNESS`
  - `Potion::WATER_BREATHING`
  - `Potion::LONG_WATER_BREATHING`
  - `Potion::HEALING`
  - `Potion::STRONG_HEALING`
  - `Potion::HARMING`
  - `Potion::STRONG_HARMING`
  - `Potion::POISON`
  - `Potion::LONG_POISON`
  - `Potion::STRONG_POISON`
  - `Potion::REGENERATION`
  - `Potion::LONG_REGENERATION`
  - `Potion::STRONG_REGENERATION`
  - `Potion::STRENGTH`
  - `Potion::LONG_STRENGTH`
  - `Potion::STRONG_STRENGTH`
  - `Potion::WEAKNESS`
  - `Potion::LONG_WEAKNESS`
  - `Potion::WITHER`
- The following methods have been renamed:
  - `Item->getDamage()` -> `Item->getMeta()`
- The following methods have been moved to `pocketmine\inventory\CreativeInventory`:
  - `Item::addCreativeItem()` -> `CreativeInventory::add()`
  - `Item::clearCreativeItems()` -> `CreativeInventory::clear()`
  - `Item::getCreativeItemIndex()` -> `CreativeInventory::getItemIndex()`
  - `Item::getCreativeItems()` -> `CreativeInventory::getAll()`
  - `Item::initCreativeItems()` -> `CreativeInventory::init()`
  - `Item::isCreativeItem()` -> `CreativeInventory::contains()`
  - `Item::removeCreativeItem()` -> `CreativeInventory::remove()`
- The following classes have been added:
  - `ArmorTypeInfo`
  - `Fertilizer`
  - `LiquidBucket`
  - `MilkBucket`
  - `PotionType`: enum class containing information about vanilla potion types
  - `WritableBookBase`
  - `WritableBookPage`
- The following API methods have been added:
  - `Armor->getArmorSlot()`
  - `Item->canStackWith()`: returns whether the two items could be contained in the same inventory slot, ignoring count and stack size limits
  - `Potion->getType()`: returns a `PotionType` enum object containing information such as the applied effects
  - `ProjectileItem->createEntity()`: returns a new instance of the projectile entity that will be thrown
- The following classes have been removed:
  - `ChainBoots`
  - `ChainChestplate`
  - `ChainHelmet`
  - `ChainLeggings`
  - `DiamondBoots`
  - `DiamondChestplate`
  - `DiamondHelmet`
  - `DiamondLeggings`
  - `GoldBoots`
  - `GoldChestplate`
  - `GoldHelmet`
  - `GoldLeggings`
  - `IronBoots`
  - `IronChesplate`
  - `IronHelmet`
  - `IronLeggings`
  - `LeatherBoots`
  - `LeatherCap`
  - `LeatherPants`
  - `LeatherTunic`

#### NBT handling
- Serialized NBT byte array caches are no longer stored on itemstacks. These caches were a premature optimization used for network layer serialization and as such were dependent on the network NBT format.
- Internal NBT usage has been marginalized. It's no longer necessary to immediately write changes to NBT. The following hooks have been added:
  - `Item->serializeCompoundTag()`
  - `Item->deserializeCompoundTag()`
- It's planned to remove runtime NBT from items completely, but this currently presents unresolved backwards-compatibility problems.

#### Enchantment
- `VanillaEnchantments` class has been added. This exposes all vanilla enchantment types as static methods, replacing the old `Enchantment::get()` nastiness.
  - Example: `Enchantment::get(Enchantment::PROTECTION)` is replaced by `VanillaEnchantments::PROTECTION()`
  - These methods also provide proper type information to static analysers instead of just generic `Enchantment`, making them easier to code with.
- The boundaries between MCPE enchantment IDs and PocketMine-MP internals are now more clear.
  - ID handling is moved to `pocketmine\data\bedrock\EnchantmentIdMap`.
  - All enchantment ID constants have been removed from `Enchantment`. `pocketmine\data\bedrock\EnchantmentIds` if you still need legacy effect IDs for some reason.
- `Enchantment::RARITY_*` constants were moved to `Rarity` class, and the `RARITY_` prefixes removed.
- `Enchantment::SLOT_*` constants were moved to `ItemFlags` class, and the `SLOT_` prefixes removed.
- The following API methods have been moved:
  - `Enchantment::registerEnchantment()` -> `EnchantmentIdMap->register()`
  - `Enchantment::getEnchantment()` -> `EnchantmentIdMap->fromId()`
  - `Enchantment->getId()` -> `EnchantmentIdMap->toId()`
  - `Enchantment::getEnchantmentByName()` -> `VanillaEnchantments::fromString()`
- The following API methods have been added:
  - `Enchantment->getRuntimeId()`: this is a **dynamic ID** which can be used for enchantment type comparisons. **This cannot be stored, so don't use it in configs or NBT!**

### Lang
- The following classes have been renamed:
  - `BaseLang` -> `Language`
- `LanguageNotFoundException` has been added. This is thrown when trying to construct a `Language` which doesn't exist in the server files.
- `TranslationContainer` no longer discards keys for translation parameters. Previously, only the insertion order was considered.
- `TranslationContainer` now supports string keys for translation parameters.
- `TranslationContainer` now supports providing other `TranslationContainers` as translation parameters.
- `Language->translateString()` now supports providing `TranslationContainers` as translation parameters.


### Network
- The following fields have been removed:
  - `Network::$BATCH_THRESHOLD`
- The following classes have been renamed:
  - `SourceInterface` -> `NetworkInterface`
  - `AdvancedSourceInterface` -> `AdvancedNetworkInterface`
- The following classes have been moved:
  - `CompressBatchedTask` -> `mcpe\CompressBatchTask`
  - `level\format\io\ChunkRequestTask` -> `mcpe\ChunkRequestTask`
  - `mcpe\RakLibInterface` -> `mcpe\raklib\RakLibInterface`
- The following classes have been removed:
  - `mcpe\PlayerNetworkSessionAdapter`
- The following methods have been removed:
  - `NetworkInterface->putPacket()`
  - `NetworkInterface->close()`
  - `NetworkInterface->emergencyShutdown()`
- `NetworkInterface` now represents a more generic interface to be implemented by any network component, as opposed to specifically a player network interface.
- Everything under the `rcon` subnamespace has been removed.
- `upnp\UPnP` has significant changes. It's now a network component instead of a pair of static methods.

### Permission
- The following new permission nodes have been introduced:
  - `pocketmine.group.everyone`: granted to everyone by default
  - `pocketmine.group.operator`: granted to operator players and the console
  These permission nodes can be assigned and overridden by permission attachments just like any other, which means it's now possible to grant **temporary operator** status which goes away when the player disconnects (or the attachment is removed).
- Permissions are now always false if they haven't been set explictly, or granted implicitly by another permission.
- Undefined permissions are now always `false` instead of following the value of `Permission::$DEFAULT_PERMISSION`.
- Permissions internally no longer have default values. Instead, they are now assigned as a child of one of the `pocketmine.group` permissions:
  - `true`: add as child to `pocketmine.group.everyone` with value `true`
  - `false`: do not add to any permission
  - `op`: add as child to `pocketmine.group.operator` with value `true`
  - `notop`: add as child to `pocketmine.group.everyone` with value `true`, and to `pocketmine.group.operator` with value `false`
  However, the `default` key in `plugin.yml` permission definitions continues to be supported.
- Added `PermissibleDelegateTrait` to reduce boilerplate for users of `PermissibleBase`. This trait is used by `ConsoleCommandSender` and `Player`.
- The following API methods have been moved:
  - `Permission::getByName()` -> `PermissionParser::defaultFromString()`
  - `Permission::loadPermissions()` -> `PermissionParser::loadPermissions()`
  - `Permission::loadPermission()` -> `PermissionParser::loadPermission()`
- The following constants have been moved:
  - `Permission::DEFAULT_FALSE` -> `PermissionParser::DEFAULT_FALSE`
  - `Permission::DEFAULT_TRUE` -> `PermissionParser::DEFAULT_TRUE`
  - `Permission::DEFAULT_OP` -> `PermissionParser::DEFAULT_OP`
  - `Permission::DEFAULT_NOT_OP` -> `PermissionParser::DEFAULT_NOT_OP`
- The following API methods have been added:
  - `Permission->addChild()`
  - `Permission->removeChild()`
  - `Permissible->getPermissionRecalculationCallbacks()` - allows reacting to changes of permissions, such as new permissions being granted or denied
  - `Permissible->setBasePermission()` - used for assigning root permissions like `pocketmine.group.operator`; plugins usually shouldn't use this
  - `Permissible->unsetBasePermission()`
  - `PermissionAttachmentInfo->getGroupPermissionInfo()` - returns the `PermissionAttachmentInfo` of the permission that caused the current permission value to be set, or null if the permission is explicit
- The following API methods have been removed:
  - `Permissible->isOp()`: use `Permissible->hasPermission(DefaultPermissions::ROOT_OPERATOR)` instead, **but you really shouldn't directly depend on a player's op status, add your own permissions instead!**
  - `Permissible->setOp()`: use `addAttachment($plugin, DefaultPermissions::ROOT_OPERATOR, true)` instead to add, and `removeAttachment()` to remove it (or addAttachment() with false to explicitly deny it, just like any other permission)
  - `Permission->addParent()`
  - `Permission->getDefault()`
  - `Permission->setDefault()`
  - `PermissionManager->getDefaultPermissions()`
  - `PermissionManager->recalculatePermissionDefaults()`
  - `PermissionManager->subscribeToDefaultPerms()`
  - `PermissionManager->unsubscribeFromDefaultPerms()`
  - `PermissionManager->getDefaultPermSubscriptions()`
  - `PermissionAttachment->getPermissible()`
  - `PermissionAttachmentInfo->getPermissible()`
- The following fields have been removed:
  - `Permission::$DEFAULT_PERMISSION`
- The following API methods have changes:
  - `PermissionParser::defaultFromString()` now throws `InvalidArgumentException` on unknown values.
  - `Permission->__construct()` no longer accepts a `$defaultValue` parameter (see notes above about defaults refactor).you should add your permission as a child of `pocketmine.group.everyone` or `pocketmine.group.operator` instead).
- The following classes have been removed:
  - `ServerOperator`

### Player
- The following classes have moved to the new `pocketmine\player` namespace:
  - `Achievement`
  - `GameMode`
  - `IPlayer`
  - `OfflinePlayer`
  - `PlayerInfo`
  - `Player`
- The following constants have been removed:
  - `Player::SURVIVAL` - use `GameMode::SURVIVAL()`
  - `Player::CREATIVE` - use `GameMode::CREATIVE()`
  - `Player::ADVENTURE` - use `GameMode::ADVENTURE()`
  - `Player::SPECTATOR` - use `GameMode::SPECTATOR()`
  - `Player::VIEW` - use `GameMode::SPECTATOR()`
- (almost) all packet handlers have been removed from `Player`. They are now encapsulated within the network layer.
- `Player->getSpawn()` no longer returns the world's safe spawn if the player's spawn position isn't set. Returning the safe spawn at the time of call made no sense, because it might not have been safe when actually used. You should pass the result of this function to `World->getSafeSpawn()` to get a safe spawn position instead.
- The following API methods have been added:
  - `Player->attackBlock()`: attack (left click) the target block, e.g. to start destroying it (survival)
  - `Player->attackEntity()`: melee-attack (left click) the target entity (if within range)
  - `Player->breakBlock()`: destroy the target block in the current world (immediately)
  - `Player->consumeHeldItem()`: consume the previously activated item, e.g. eating food
  - `Player->continueBreakBlock()`: punch the target block during destruction in survival, advancing break animation and creating particles
  - `Player->getItemCooldownExpiry()`: returns the tick on which the player's cooldown for a given item expires
  - `Player->hasFiniteResources()`
  - `Player->interactBlock()`: interact (right click) the target block in the current world
  - `Player->interactEntity()`: interact (right click) the target entity, e.g. to apply a nametag (not implemented yet)
  - `Player->pickBlock()`: picks (mousewheel click) the target block in the current world
  - `Player->releaseHeldItem()`: release the previously activated item, e.g. shooting a bow
  - `Player->selectHotbarSlot()`: select the specified hotbar slot
  - `Player->stopBreakBlock()`: cease attacking a previously attacked block
  - `Player->toggleFlight()`: tries to start / stop flying (fires events, may be cancelled)
  - `Player->updateNextPosition()`: sets the player's next attempted move location (fires events, may be cancelled)
  - `Player->useHeldItem()`: activate the held item, e.g. throwing a snowball
  - `Player->getSaveData()`: returns save data generated on the fly
- The following API methods have been removed:
  - `Player->addActionBarMessage()`: replaced by `sendActionBarMessage()`
  - `Player->addSubTitle()`: replaced by `sendSubTitle()`
  - `Player->addTitle()`: replaced by `sendTitle()`
  - `Player->getAddress()`: replaced by `NetworkSession->getIp()`
  - `Player->getPing()`: moved to `NetworkSession`
  - `Player->getPort()`: moved to `NetworkSession`
  - `Player->updatePing()`: moved to `NetworkSession`
  - `Player->dataPacket()`: replaced by `NetworkSession->sendDataPacket()`
  - `Player->sendDataPacket()`: replaced by `NetworkSession->sendDataPacket()`
  - `Player->updateNextPosition()`: use `Player->handleMovement()` instead
  - `IPlayer->isWhitelisted()`: use `Server->isWhitelisted()` instead
  - `IPlayer->setWhitelisted()`: use `Server->setWhitelisted()` instead
  - `IPlayer->isBanned()`: this was unreliable because it only checked name bans and didn't account for plugin custom ban systems. Use `Server->getNameBans()->isBanned()` and `Server->getIPBans()->isBanned()` instead.
  - `IPlayer->setBanned()`: use `Server` APIs instead
  - `IPlayer->isOp()`: use `Server` APIs instead
  - `IPlayer->setOp()`: use `Server` APIs instead

### Plugin
- API version checks are now more strict. It is no longer legal to declare multiple minimum versions on the same major version. Doing so will now cause the plugin to fail to load with the message `Multiple minimum API versions found for some major versions`.
- `plugin.yml` YAML commands loading is now internalized inside `PluginBase`.
- `PluginManager->registerEvent()` now has a simpler signature: `registerEvent(string $event, \Closure $handler, int $priority, Plugin $plugin, bool $handleCancelled = false)`. The provided closure must accept the specified event class as its only parameter. See [Event API changes](#event) for more details.
- The following classes have been removed:
  - `PluginLogger`
- The following interface requirements have been removed:
  - `Plugin->onEnable()`: this is now internalized inside `PluginBase`
  - `Plugin->onDisable()`: same as above
  - `Plugin->onLoad()`: same as above
  - `Plugin->getServer()` is no longer required to be implemented. It's implemented in `PluginBase` for convenience.
  - `Plugin->isDisabled()` was removed (use `Plugin->isEnabled()` instead).
  - `Plugin` no longer extends `CommandExecutor`. This means that `Plugin` implementations don't need to implement `onCommand()` anymore.
- The following hook methods have changed visibility:
  - `PluginBase->onEnable()` changed from `public` to `protected`
  - `PluginBase->onDisable()` changed from `public` to `protected`
  - `PluginBase->onLoad()` changed from `public` to `protected`
- The following hook methods have been renamed:
  - `Plugin->setEnabled()` -> `Plugin->onEnableStateChange()`. This change was made to force plugin developers misusing this hook to stop, and to give it a name that better describes what it does.
- The following (deprecated) API methods have been removed:
  - `PluginManager->callEvent()`: use `Event->call()` instead
  - `PluginManager->addPermission()`: use `PermissionManager` instead
  - `PluginManager->getDefaultPermSubscriptions()`: use `PermissionManager` instead
  - `PluginManager->getDefaultPermissions()`: use `PermissionManager` instead
  - `PluginManager->getPermission()`: use `PermissionManager` instead
  - `PluginManager->getPermissionSubscriptions()`: use `PermissionManager` instead
  - `PluginManager->getPermissions()`: use `PermissionManager` instead
  - `PluginManager->recalculatePermissionDefaults()`: use `PermissionManager` instead
  - `PluginManager->removePermission()`: use `PermissionManager` instead
  - `PluginManager->subscribeToDefaultPerms()`: use `PermissionManager` instead
  - `PluginManager->subscribeToPermission()`: use `PermissionManager` instead
  - `PluginManager->unsubscribeFromDefaultPerms()`: use `PermissionManager` instead
  - `PluginManager->unsubscribeFromPermission()`: use `PermissionManager` instead
- It is no longer permitted to throw exceptions from `PluginBase->onEnable()` or `PluginBase->onLoad()`. Doing so will now cause the server to crash.

### Scheduler
#### Thread-local storage for AsyncTasks
- TLS has been completely rewritten in this release to be self contained, more robust and easier to use.
- Now behaves more like simple properties. `storeLocal()` writes, `fetchLocal()` reads.
- Self-contained and doesn't depend on the async pool to clean up after it.
- Values are automatically removed from storage when the `AsyncTask` is garbage-collected, just like a regular property.
- Supports storing multiple values, differentiated by string names.
- `fetchLocal()` can now be used multiple times. It no longer deletes the stored value.
- The following classes have been removed:
  - `FileWriteTask`
- The following methods have been removed:
  - `AsyncTask->peekLocal()`: use `fetchLocal()` instead
- The following methods have signature changes:
  - `AsyncTask->storeLocal()` now has the signature `storeLocal(string $key, mixed $complexData) : void`
  - `AsyncTask->fetchLocal()` now has the signature `fetchLocal(string $key) : mixed`

#### Other changes
- `AsyncPool` uses a new, significantly more performant algorithm for task collection.
- `BulkCurlTask` has had the `$complexData` constructor parameter removed.
- `BulkCurlTask->__construct()` now accepts `BulkCurlTaskOperation[]` instead of `mixed[]`.
- Added `CancelTaskException`, which can be thrown from `Task::onRun()` to cancel a task (especially useful for `ClosureTask`).
- `pocketmine\Collectable` has been removed, and is no longer extended by `AsyncTask`.
- The following hooks have been added:
  - `AsyncTask->onError()`: called on the main thread when an uncontrolled error was detected in the async task, such as a memory failure
- The following hooks have signature changes:
  - `AsyncTask->onCompletion()` no longer accepts a `Server` parameter, and has a `void` return type.
  - `AsyncTask->onProgressUpdate()` no longer accepts a `Server` parameter, and has a `void` return type.
- The following API methods have been removed:
  - `AsyncTask->getFromThreadStore()`: use `AsyncTask->worker->getFromThreadStore()`
  - `AsyncTask->removeFromThreadStore()`: use `AsyncTask->worker->removeFromThreadStore()`
  - `AsyncTask->saveToThreadStore()`: use `AsyncTask->worker->saveToThreadStore()`

### Server
- New chat broadcasting APIs have been implemented, which don't depend on the permission system.
  - The following API methods have been added:
    - `subscribeToBroadcastChannel()` - allows subscribing a `CommandSender` to receive chat messages (and other message types) on any channel
    - `unsubscribeFromBroadcastChannel()`
    - `unsubscribeFromAllBroadcastChannels()`
    - `getBroadcastChannelSubscribers()`
  - Giving `Player` any `pocketmine.broadcast.*` permissions will cause them to automatically subscribe to the corresponding broadcast channel (and removing them will unsubscribe it).
  - It's now possible to create and subscribe to custom broadcast channels without using permissions.
  - However, `Player`s may automatically unsubscribe themselves from the builtin broadcast channels if they don't have the proper permissions.
  - Automatic subscribe/unsubscribe from custom broadcast channels can be implemented using the new `Permissible` permission recalculation callbacks API.
- The following API methods have been removed:
  - `reloadWhitelist()`
  - `getLevelMetadata()`
  - `getPlayerMetadata()`
  - `getEntityMetadata()`
  - `getDefaultGamemode()`
  - `getLoggedInPlayers()`
  - `onPlayerLogout()`
  - `addPlayer()`
  - `removePlayer()`
  - `reload()`
  - `getSpawnRadius()`
  - `enablePlugin()`
  - `disablePlugin()`
  - `getGamemodeString()` - replaced by `pocketmine\player\GameMode->getTranslationKey()`
  - `getGamemodeName()` - replaced by `pocketmine\player\GameMode->name()`
  - `getGamemodeFromString()` - replaced by `GameMode::fromString()`
  - `broadcast()` - use `broadcastMessage()` instead
- The following API methods have changed:
  - `getOfflinePlayerData()` no longer creates data when it doesn't exist.
- The following API methods have been renamed:
  - `getPlayer()` -> `getPlayerByPrefix()` (consider using `getPlayerExact()` instead where possible)

### Level / World
#### General
- All references to `Level` in the context of "world" have been changed to `World`.
  - The `pocketmine\level` namespace has been renamed to `pocketmine\world`
  - All classes containing the world `Level` in the name in the "world" context have been changed to `World`.
  - `Position->getLevel()` has been renamed to `Position->getWorld()`, and `Position->level` has been renamed to `Position->world`.
- Extracted a `WorldManager` unit from `Server`
  - `Server->findEntity()` -> `WorldManager->findEntity()`
  - `Server->generateLevel()` -> `WorldManager->generateWorld()`
  - `Server->getAutoSave()` -> `WorldManager->getAutoSave()`
  - `Server->getDefaultLevel()` -> `WorldManager->getDefaultWorld()`
  - `Server->getLevel()` -> `WorldManager->getWorld()`
  - `Server->getLevelByName()` -> `WorldManager->getWorldByName()`
  - `Server->getLevels()` -> `WorldManager->getWorlds()`
  - `Server->isLevelGenerated()` -> `WorldManager->isWorldGenerated()`
  - `Server->isLevelLoaded()` -> `WorldManager->isWorldLoaded()`
  - `Server->loadLevel()` -> `WorldManager->loadWorld()`
    - `WorldManager->loadWorld()` may convert worlds if requested (the `$autoUpgrade` parameter must be provided).
  - `Server->setAutoSave()` -> `WorldManager->setAutoSave()`
  - `Server->setDefaultLevel()` -> `WorldManager->setDefaultWorld()`
  - `Server->unloadLevel()` -> `WorldManager->unloadWorld()`
- Added `WorldManager->getAutoSaveTicks()` and `WorldManager->setAutoSaveTicks()` to allow controlling the autosave interval.
- The following classes have been added:
  - `BlockTransaction`: allows creating batch commits of block changes with validation conditions - if any block can't be applied, the whole transaction fails to apply.
  - `ChunkListenerNoOpTrait`: contains default no-op stubs for chunk listener implementations
  - `ChunkListener`: interface allowing subscribing to events happening on a given chunk
  - `TickingChunkLoader`: a `ChunkLoader` specialization that allows ticking chunks
- `ChunkLoader` no longer requires implementing `getX()` and `getZ()`.
- `ChunkLoader` no longer causes chunks to get random updates. If this behaviour is needed, implement `TickingChunkLoader`.
- The following classes have been renamed:
  - `pocketmine\world\utils\SubChunkIteratorManager` -> `pocketmine\world\utils\SubChunkExplorer`
- The following API methods have been added:
  - `World->registerChunkListener()`
  - `World->unregisterChunkListener()`
  - `Chunk->isDirty()` (replacement for `Chunk->hasChanged()`)
  - `Chunk->getDirtyFlag()` (more granular component-based chunk dirty-flagging, used to avoid saving unmodified parts of the chunk)
  - `Chunk->setDirty()`
  - `Chunk->setDirtyFlag()`
- The following API methods have been removed:
  - `ChunkLoader->getLoaderId()` (now object ID is used)
  - `ChunkLoader->isLoaderActive()`
  - `ChunkLoader->getPosition()`
  - `ChunkLoader->getLevel()`
  - `Chunk->fastSerialize()` (use `FastChunkSerializer::serialize()` instead)
  - `Chunk->getBlockData()`
  - `Chunk->getBlockDataColumn()`
  - `Chunk->getBlockId()`
  - `Chunk->getBlockIdColumn()`
  - `Chunk->getBlockLight()`
  - `Chunk->getBlockLightColumn()`
  - `Chunk->getBlockSkyLight()`
  - `Chunk->getBlockSkyLightColumn()`
  - `Chunk->getMaxY()`
  - `Chunk->getSubChunkSendCount()` (this was specialized for protocol usage)
  - `Chunk->getX()`
  - `Chunk->getZ()`
  - `Chunk->hasChanged()` (use `Chunk->isDirty()` or `Chunk->getDirtyFlag()` instead)
  - `Chunk->isGenerated()`
  - `Chunk->networkSerialize()` (see `ChunkSerializer` in the `network\mcpe\serializer` package)
  - `Chunk->populateSkyLight()` (use `SkyLightUpdate->recalculateChunk()` instead)
  - `Chunk->recalculateHeightMap()` (moved to `SkyLightUpdate`)
  - `Chunk->recalculateHeightMapColumn()` (moved to `SkyLightUpdate`)
  - `Chunk->setAllBlockLight()`
  - `Chunk->setAllBlockSkyLight()`
  - `Chunk->setBlock()`
  - `Chunk->setBlockData()`
  - `Chunk->setBlockId()`
  - `Chunk->setBlockLight()`
  - `Chunk->setBlockSkyLight()`
  - `Chunk->setChanged()` (use `Chunk->setDirty()` or `Chunk->setDirtyFlag()` instead)
  - `Chunk->setGenerated()`
  - `Chunk->setX()`
  - `Chunk->setZ()`
  - `Chunk::fastDeserialize()` (use `FastChunkSerializer::deserialize()` instead)
  - `World->isFullBlock()`
  - `World->getFullBlock()`
  - `World->getBlockIdAt()`
  - `World->setBlockIdAt()`
  - `World->getBlockDataAt()`
  - `World->setBlockDataAt()`
  - `World->setBlockLightAt()`
  - `World->setBlockSkyLightAt()`
  - `World->getBlockSkyLightAt()` (use `World->getRealBlockSkyLightAt()` or `World->getPotentialBlockSkyLightAt()`, depending on use-case)
  - `World->getHeightMap()` (misleading name, only actually useful for sky light calculation - you probably want `getHighestBlockAt()` instead)
  - `World->setHeightMap()` (misleading name, only actually useful for sky light calculation)
  - `World->getChunkEntities()`
  - `World->getChunkTiles()`
  - `World->getTileById()`
  - `World->checkSpawnProtection()`
  - `World->updateBlockLight()`
  - `World->updateSkyLight()`
  - `World->isFullBlock()` (use `Block->isFullCube()` instead)
  - `World->sendBlocks()`
  - `World->sendTime()`
  - `World->addGlobalPacket()`
  - `World->broadcastGlobalPacket()`
  - `World->addChunkPacket()`
  - `World->broadcastLevelSoundEvent()`
  - `World->broadcastLevelEvent()`
  - `World->getTickRate()`
  - `World->setTickRate()`
  - `World::generateChunkLoaderId()`
- The following API methods have changed signatures:
  - `World->addParticle()` now has the signature `addParticle(Vector3 $pos, Particle $particle, ?Player[] $players = null) : void`
  - `World->addSound()` now has the signature `addSound(?Vector3 $pos, Sound $sound, ?Player[] $players = null) : void`
  - `World->getRandomTickedBlocks()` now returns `bool[]` instead of `SplFixedArray`.
  - `World->addRandomTickedBlock()` now accepts `Block` instead of `int, int`.
  - `World->removeRandomTickedBlock()` now accepts `Block` instead of `int, int`.
  - `World->setBlock()` has had the `$direct` parameter removed.
  - `World->loadChunk()` now returns `?Chunk`, and the `$create` parameter has been removed.
  - `World->getChunk()` no longer accepts a `$create` parameter.
  - `World->updateAllLight()` now accepts `int, int, int` instead of `Vector3`.
  - `ChunkManager->setChunk()` (and its notable implementations in `World` and `SimpleChunkManager`) no longer accepts NULL for the `$chunk` parameter.
  - `Chunk->__construct()` now has the signature `array<int, SubChunk> $subChunks, ?list<CompoundTag> $entities, ?list<CompoundTag> $tiles, ?BiomeArray $biomeArray, ?HeightArray $heightArray`.
  - `Chunk->getSubChunk()` now returns `SubChunk` instead of `SubChunkInterface|null` (and throws `InvalidArgumentException` on out-of-bounds coordinates).
  - `Chunk->setSubChunk()` no longer accepts `SubChunkInterface`, and the `$allowEmpty` parameter has been removed.
  - `WorldManager->generateWorld()` (previously `Server->generateWorld()`) now accepts `WorldCreationOptions` instead of `int $seed, class-string<Generator> $generator, mixed[] $options`.
- The following API methods have been renamed / moved:
  - `Level->getCollisionCubes()` -> `World->getCollisionBoxes()`
  - `World->getName()` -> `World->getDisplayName()`
  - `World->populateChunk()` has been split into `World->requestChunkPopulation()` and `World->orderChunkPopulation()`.
- The following API methods have changed behaviour:
  - `World->getChunk()` no longer tries to load chunks from disk. If the chunk is not already in memory, null is returned. (This behaviour now properly matches other `ChunkManager` implementations.)
  - `World->getHighestBlockAt()` now returns `null` instead of `-1` if the target X/Z column contains no blocks.
  - The following methods now throw `WorldException` when targeting ungenerated terrain:
    - `World->getSafeSpawn()` (previously it just silently returned the input position)
    - `World->getHighestBlockAt()` (previously it returned -1)
  - `World->loadChunk()` no longer creates an empty chunk when the target chunk doesn't exist on disk.
  - `World->setChunk()` now fires `ChunkLoadEvent` and `ChunkListener->onChunkLoaded()` when replacing a chunk that didn't previously exist.
  - `World->useBreakOn()` now returns `false` when the target position is in an ungenerated or unloaded chunk (or chunk locked for generation).
  - `World->useItemOn()` now returns `false` when the target position is in an ungenerated or unloaded chunk (or chunk locked for generation).
- A `ChunkListener` interface has been extracted from `ChunkLoader`. The following methods have been moved:
  - `ChunkLoader->onBlockChanged()` -> `ChunkListener->onBlockChanged()`
  - `ChunkLoader->onChunkChanged()` -> `ChunkListener->onChunkChanged()`
  - `ChunkLoader->onChunkLoaded()` -> `ChunkListener->onChunkLoaded()`
  - `ChunkLoader->onChunkPopulated()` -> `ChunkListener->onChunkPopulated()`
  - `ChunkLoader->onChunkUnloaded()` -> `ChunkListener->onChunkUnloaded()`
- `Location` has been moved to `pocketmine\entity\Location`.

#### Particles
- `DestroyBlockParticle` has been renamed to `BlockBreakParticle` for consistency.
- `DustParticle->__construct()` now accepts a `pocketmine\utils\Color` object instead of `r, g, b, a`.
- `pocketmine\world\particle\Particle` no longer extends `pocketmine\math\Vector3`, and has been converted to an interface.
- Added the following `Particle` classes:
  - `DragonEggTeleportParticle`
  - `PunchBlockParticle`

#### Sounds
- `pocketmine\world\sound\Sound` no longer extends `pocketmine\math\Vector3`, and has been converted to an interface.
- `Sound->encode()` now accepts `?\pocketmine\math\Vector3`. `NULL` may be passed for sounds which are global.
- Added the following classes:
  - `ArrowHitSound`
  - `BlockBreakSound`
  - `BlockPlaceSound`
  - `BowShootSound`
  - `BucketEmptyLavaSound`
  - `BucketEmptyWaterSound`
  - `BucketFillLavaSound`
  - `BucketFillWaterSound`
  - `ChestCloseSound`
  - `ChestOpenSound`
  - `EnderChestCloseSound`
  - `EnderChestOpenSound`
  - `ExplodeSound`
  - `FlintSteelSound`
  - `ItemBreakSound`
  - `NoteInstrument`
  - `NoteSound`
  - `PaintingPlaceSound`
  - `PotionSplashSound`
  - `RedstonePowerOffSound`
  - `RedstonePowerOnSound`
  - `ThrowSound`
  - `XpCollectSound`
  - `XpLevelUpSound`

### Utils
- The `Color` class was removed. It's now found as `pocketmine\color\Color` in the [`pocketmine/color`](https://github.com/pmmp/Color) package.
- The `UUID` class was removed. [`ramsey/uuid`](https://github.com/ramsey/uuid) version 4.1 is now used instead.
  - `UUID::fromData()` can be replaced by `Ramsey\Uuid\Uuid::uuid3()`
  - `UUID::fromRandom()` can be replaced by `Ramsey\Uuid\Uuid::uuid4()`
  - `UUID::fromBinary()` can be replaced by `Ramsey\Uuid\Uuid::fromBytes()` (use `Ramsey\Uuid\Uuid::isValid()` to check validity)
  - `UUID::toBinary()` is replaced by `Ramsey\Uuid\UuidInterface::getBytes()`
  - See the documentation at https://uuid.ramsey.dev/en/latest/introduction.html for more information.
- `Terminal::hasFormattingCodes()` no longer auto-detects the availability of formatting codes. Instead it's necessary to use `Terminal::init()` with no parameters to initialize, or `true` or `false` to override.
- `Config->save()` no longer catches exceptions thrown during emitting to disk.
- The following new classes have been added:
  - `InternetException`
  - `Internet`
  - `Process`
- The following API methods have been added:
  - `Config->getPath()`: returns the path to the config on disk
  - `Terminal::write()`: emits a Minecraft-formatted text line without newline
  - `Terminal::writeLine()`: emits a Minecraft-formatted text line with newline
  - `Utils::recursiveUnlink()`: recursively deletes a directory and its contents
- The following deprecated API redirects have been removed:
  - `Utils::execute()`: moved to `Process`
  - `Utils::getIP()`: moved to `Internet`
  - `Utils::getMemoryUsage()`: moved to `Process`
  - `Utils::getRealMemoryUsage()`: moved to `Process`
  - `Utils::getThreadCount()`: moved to `Process`
  - `Utils::getURL()`: moved to `Internet`
  - `Utils::kill()`: moved to `Process`
  - `Utils::postURL()`: moved to `Internet`
  - `Utils::simpleCurl()`: moved to `Internet`
- The following API fields have been removed / hidden:
  - `Utils::$ip`
  - `Utils::$online`
  - `Utils::$os`
- The following API methods have signature changes:
  - `Internet::simpleCurl()` now requires a `Closure` for its `onSuccess` parameter instead of `callable`.
- The following API methods have been removed:
  - `Utils::getCallableIdentifier()`

## Gameplay
### Blocks
- Implemented the following blocks:
  - bamboo
  - bamboo sapling
  - barrel
  - barrier
  - blue ice
  - carved pumpkin
  - coral block
  - daylight sensor
  - dried kelp
  - elements (from Minecraft: Education Edition)
  - hard (stained and unstained) glass (from Minecraft: Education Edition)
  - hard (stained and unstained) glass pane (from Minecraft: Education Edition)
  - jukebox
  - note block
  - red, green, blue and purple torches (from Minecraft: Education Edition)
  - sea pickle
  - underwater torches (from Minecraft: Education Edition)
  - additional wood variants of the following:
    - buttons
    - pressure plates
    - signs
    - trapdoors
  - stairs of the following materials:
    - andesite (smooth and natural)
    - diorite (smooth and natural)
    - end stone
    - end stone brick
    - granite (smooth and natural)
    - mossy cobblestone
    - prismarine (natural, dark and bricks)
    - red nether brick
    - red sandstone (and variants)
  - stone-like slabs of many variants

### Items
- Implemented the following items:
  - records
  - compounds (from Minecraft: Education Edition)
  - black, brown, blue and white dyes
