**For Minecraft: Bedrock Edition 1.19.50**

### Note about API versions
Plugins which don't touch the protocol and compatible with any previous 4.x.y version will also run on these releases and do not need API bumps.
Plugin developers should **only** update their required API to this version if you need the changes in this build.

**WARNING: If your plugin uses the protocol, you're not shielded by API change constraints.** You should consider using the `mcpe-protocol` directive in `plugin.yml` as a constraint if you do.

# 4.12.0
Released 30th November 2022.

## General
- Added support for Minecraft: Bedrock Edition 1.19.50.
- Removed support for older versions.

# 4.12.1
Released 4th December 2022.

## Fixes
- Fixed items glitching when dragging a stack of items across the crafting grid (desync issues).

# 4.12.2
Released 15th December 2022.

## Fixes
- Folder used for plugins (optionally specified by `--plugins`) is no longer required to be writable.
- Fixed broken writable check for server data folder (`is_writable()` broken on NFS and similar filesystems).
- `Filesystem::createLockFile()` exceptions now include more information about why the lock file could not be created.
- Fixed client-side item predictions not being rolled back when cancelling events such as `PlayerItemUseEvent`.

## Dependencies
- Updated BedrockProtocol to [17.1.0](https://github.com/pmmp/BedrockProtocol/releases/tag/17.1.0+bedrock-1.19.50). This adds some missing `LevelSoundEvent` constants and fixes the values for `ContainerUIIds`.

# 4.12.3
Released 28th December 2022.

## Fixes
- Fixed unauthenticated connections taking up player count slots, preventing players from joining.
- Fixed a possible crash in `World->tickChunk()` when plugins unload chunks during some events.
- `/gamemode` will now report a failure to change game mode if the player is already in the requested game mode.

# 4.12.4
Released 3rd January 2023.

## Fixes
- Added workarounds for an active exploit being used to deny service to servers.

# 4.12.5
Released 6th January 2023.

## Fixes
- Removed a workaround for an old client bug in custom form responses. The code contained a denial-of-service vulnerability.

# 4.12.6
Released 7th January 2023.

## Changes
- Added a new security measure to `NetworkSession` to detect and ban players who flood the server with packets.

# 4.12.7
Released 8th January 2023.

## Fixes
- Fixed players getting kicked when the server lags for too long.
- Fixed players getting kicked when a debugging session is active and a breakpoint is hit.

# 4.12.8
Released 9th January 2023.

## Fixes
- Fixed players getting kicked during PvP.
- Fixed players randomly getting kicked on Windows (improper rate limit handling wrt. 15ms timer resolution).

# 4.12.9
Released 16th January 2023.

## Improvements
### Timings
- Added new timers:
  - `Server Mid-Tick Processing` - time spent processing Snooze interrupts between ticks (e.g. incoming network packets)
  - `Server Tick Update Cycle` - time spent processing regular per-tick updates (e.g. entity movement, world updates, etc.) (`Server->tick()`)
- `Full Server Tick` timer now counts the total of `Server Mid-Tick Processing` and `Server Tick Update Cycle`, which generates more accurate performance metrics.
  - Previously, this timer only counted the time spent during regular per-tick updates, and the time recorded by `Server Mid-Tick Processing` was not included in the report at all.

## Fixes
- Fixed blocks such as pressure plates being able to be placed without the correct supporting blocks if the clicked block was solid.
- Pressure plates now self-destruct when the block below them is removed.
- Fixed being unable to place blocks by clicking on the side of a bell (when the click doesn't result in ringing the bell).
- Fixed various rotation-aware blocks (e.g. stairs) behaving incorrectly when placed by clicking on the side of a replaceable block (e.g. tall grass).
- Fixed banners being able to be placed on top of blocks such as skulls.
- Fixed server-side collision boxes of walls and glass (which should connect, but didn't). Note that wall connections still don't show client side - this just fixes the collision boxes.
- Fixed `PlayerInteractEvent` with `LEFT_CLICK` sometimes firing before `BlockBreakEvent` when breaking blocks.

## Other changes
- Increased packet batch budget for player sessions.

# 4.12.10
Released 18th January 2023.

## Fixes
- Fixed reported server load not including the time spent processing Snooze interrupts between ticks (e.g. incoming network packets).
- Fixed `Connection Handler` entry in timings report not including time spent receiving packets.

## Note about server load & performance
This version will report higher apparent server load than previous versions. The actual performance of the server is unchanged; the previous reported load was inaccurate.
These bugs have been present for nearly 5 years (ever since the first introduction of Snooze in 3.0.0).
