**For Minecraft: Bedrock Edition 1.19.80**

### Note about API versions
Plugins which don't touch the `pocketmine\network\mcpe` namespace are compatible with any previous 4.x.y version will also run on these releases and do not need API bumps.
Plugin developers should **only** update their required API to this version if you need the changes in this build.

**WARNING: If your plugin uses the `pocketmine\network\mcpe` namespace, you're not shielded by API change constraints.**
Consider using the `mcpe-protocol` directive in `plugin.yml` as a constraint if you're using packets directly.

### Interim releases
If you're upgrading from 4.17.x directly to 4.20.x, please also read the following changelogs, as the interim releases contain important changes:

- [4.18.0](https://github.com/pmmp/PocketMine-MP/blob/4.20.0/changelogs/4.18.md#4180) - major performance improvements, internal network changes, minor API additions
- [4.19.0](https://github.com/pmmp/PocketMine-MP/blob/4.20.0/changelogs/4.19.md#4190) - minor performance improvements, improved timings system, minor API additions

# 4.20.0
Released 26th April 2023.

## General
- Added support for Minecraft: Bedrock Edition 1.19.80.
- Removed support for older versions.

## Fixes
- Fixed packet processing error when attempting to use a stonecutter.
- Fixed armor slots containing ghost items when cancelling right-click to equip armor.
- Fixed crash in `HandlerList->getListenersByPriority()` when no listeners are registered at the given priority.

## API
### `pocketmine\block`
- The following API methods have been added:
  - `public BaseSign->getEditorEntityRuntimeId() : int` - returns the entity runtime ID of the player currently editing this sign, or `null` if none
  - `public BaseSign->setEditorEntityRuntimeId(?int $editorEntityRuntimeId) : $this` - sets the entity runtime ID of the player currently editing this sign

### `pocketmine\player`
- The following API methods have been added:
  - `public Player->openSignEditor(Vector3 $position) : void` - opens the client-side sign editor GUI for the given position

# 4.20.1
Released 27th April 2023.

## Fixes
- Fixed server crash when firing a bow while holding arrows in the offhand slot.

## Internals
- `ItemStackContainerIdTranslator::translate()` now requires an additional `int $slotId` parameter and returns `array{int, int}` (translated window ID, translated slot ID) to be used with `InventoryManager->locateWindowAndSlot()`.
- `InventoryManager->locateWindowAndSlot()` now checks if the translated slot actually exists in the requested inventory, and returns `null` if not. Previously, it would return potentially invalid slot IDs without checking them, potentially leading to crashes.

# 4.20.2
Released 4th May 2023.

## Fixes
- Fixed all types of wooden logs appearing as oak in the inventory.
- Fixed a performance issue in `BaseInventory->canAddItem()` (missing `continue` causing useless logic to run).

# 4.20.3
Released 6th May 2023.

## Improvements
- Reduced memory usage of `RuntimeBlockMapping` from 25 MB to 9 MB. Since every thread has its own copy of the block map, this saves a substantial amount of memory.

## Fixes
- Fixed players falling through blocks in spectator mode.
- Fixed timings reports getting bloated by prolific usage of `PluginManager->registerEvent()`.
  - This was caused by creating a new timings handler for each call, regardless of whether a timer already existed for the given event and callback.
- Fixed `Full Server Tick` and other records being missing from timings reports.
  - This was caused by timings handler depth not getting reset when timings was disabled and later re-enabled.

# 4.20.4
Released 6th May 2023.

## Fixes
- Fixed players being forced into flight mode in every game mode.
  - Moral of the story: do not assume anything in Mojang internals does what its name suggests...

# 4.20.5
Released 30th May 2023.

## Fixes
- Fixed server crash due to a bug in upstream dependency [`netresearch/jsonmapper`](https://github.com/cweiske/JsonMapper).
