# 5.1.0
Released 7th June 2023.

**For Minecraft: Bedrock Edition 1.20.0**

This is a support release for Minecraft: Bedrock Edition 1.20.0.

**Plugin compatibility:** Plugins for previous 5.x versions will run unchanged on this release, unless they use internal APIs, reflection, or packages like the `pocketmine\network\mcpe` namespace.
Do not update plugin minimum API versions unless you need new features added in this release.

**WARNING: If your plugin uses the `pocketmine\network\mcpe` namespace, you're not shielded by API change constraints.**
Consider using the `mcpe-protocol` directive in `plugin.yml` as a constraint if you're using packets directly.

## General
- Added support for Minecraft: Bedrock Edition 1.20.0.
- Removed support for older versions.

# 5.1.1
Released 7th June 2023.

## Fixes
- Fixed blockstates being saved with the wrong version ID for 1.20.0.

# 5.1.2
Released 9th June 2023.

**This release includes changes from the following releases:**
- [4.22.1](https://github.com/pmmp/PocketMine-MP/blob/4.22.1/changelogs/4.22.md#4221) - Teleportation client bug workarounds

This release contains no other changes.

# 5.1.3
Released 1st July 2023.

**This release includes changes from the following releases:**
- [4.22.2](https://github.com/pmmp/PocketMine-MP/blob/4.22.2/changelogs/4.22.md#4222) - Authentication time bomb fix

## General
- Updated logos to new RGB-style logo. Thanks to @MrCakeSlayer and @HBIDamian for their efforts.
- Improved error messages generated by the world system when some version tags are missing from `level.dat` in Bedrock worlds.
- Outsourced Composer dependencies now only receive patch updates automatically (pinned using the `~` constraint).
  - Minor and major updates now require manually updating `composer.json`, to ensure that the plugin API is not broken by libraries getting randomly updated from one patch release to the next.

## Documentation
- Updated doc comment for `Player->setGamemode()` to remove outdated information.
- Added documentation for the `$clickVector` parameter of `Block->onInteract()` to specify that it is relative to the block's position.
- Added missing `@required` tag for `BlockStateUpgradeSchemaModelBlockRemap->newState`.

## Fixes
- Fixed blue candles not appearing in the creative inventory.
- Fixed server crash when block-picking candle cakes.
- `World->useItemOn()` now ensures that the `$clickVector` components are always in the range of 0-1. Previously, any invalid values were accepted, potentially leading to a crash.
