# 5.14.0
Released 5th April 2024.

**For Minecraft: Bedrock Edition 1.20.70**

This is a minor feature release, including performance improvements, minor gameplay features, new API features, and various internal improvements.

**Plugin compatibility:** Plugins for previous 5.x versions will run unchanged on this release, unless they use internal APIs, reflection, or packages like the `pocketmine\network\mcpe`  or `pocketmine\data` namespace.
Do not update plugin minimum API versions unless you need new features added in this release.

**WARNING: If your plugin uses the `pocketmine\network\mcpe` namespace, you're not shielded by API change constraints.**
Consider using the `mcpe-protocol` directive in `plugin.yml` as a constraint if you're using packets directly.

## General
- Added support for a `--no-log-file` command-line option, which disables the creation of a `server.log` file.
  - **Use this with caution.** If you don't have another mechanism for collecting logs (e.g. Docker), this may make debugging harder.
- Added support for automatic `server.log` rotation. When the `server.log` exceeds 32 MB, it will be renamed and moved to the `log_archive` folder in the server's data directory.
  - Files in the `log_archive` folder can be safely modified or deleted without stopping the server.
  - We suggest a cron job or similar to manage old log files (e.g. deleting or compressing them).
- Added a new cache mechanism for `PocketMine-MP.phar`. This has several advantages:
  - Caches are now reused by all threads - this significantly reduces `/tmp` usage (previously every thread generated its own cache, wasting lots of space)
  - Dead cache files are automatically cleaned up by new servers - this means that a server crash loop won't flood `/tmp` anymore
- `/status` now reports a more accurate number of threads on Windows.
- Large resource packs are now able to be properly downloaded from the server.
- Larger player skin sizes are now accepted by the server.
- Improved logging from world providers to reduce spam when chunks contain invalid data.
- Added more error logging for Anvil, PMAnvil and MCRegion worlds.
- PHP deprecation warnings no longer cause the server to crash. This should make it easier for server owners to update to newer PHP versions.

## Performance
- Improved world loading performance. This was achieved through a combination of changes:
  - Improvements to `BlockStateUpgrader` to avoid unnecessary work
  - Improvements to `BlockStateUpgradeSchema` to clean up stupid code
  - Improvements to `BlockStateReader` unused state handling
  - Optimizations to `RegistryTrait` (see below)
- Improved performance of `RegistryTrait::__callStatic()` accessor by introducing a fast-path optimization. Ensure that you access registries with the correct function name case to benefit from this.
  - This improves the performance of `VanillaBlocks::WHATEVER()`, `VanillaItems`, etc.

## Tools
- `tools/generate-blockstate-upgrade-schema.php` now supports generating schemas using `flattenedValueRemaps` (described in [BlockStateUpgradeSchema](https://github.com/pmmp/BedrockBlockUpgradeSchema/releases/tag/4.0.0)).

## Gameplay
- Added sounds for armour equipping and unequipping.
- Added sound for picking berries from a sweet berry bush.

## API
### `pocketmine\block\utils`
- The following enum cases have been added:
  - `BannerPatternType::GLOBE`
  - `BannerPatternType::PIGLIN`

### `pocketmine\event\player`
- The following classes have been added:
  - `PlayerResourcePackOfferEvent` - called before the server tells a connecting client which resource packs are available to download - allows customizing the pack list and other options

### `pocketmine\item`
- The following API methods have been added:
  - `public ArmorMaterial->getEquipSound() : ?\pocketmine\world\Sound` - returns the sound to play when this armour is equipped or unequipped
- The following API methods have signature changes:
  - `ArmorMaterial->__construct()` now accepts an optional `?Sound $equipSound` parameter

### `pocketmine\utils`
- The following API methods have signature changes:
  - `MainLogger->__construct()` now accepts `null` for the `$logFile` parameter - this disables the creation of a logger thread and log file
  - `MainLogger->__construct()` now accepts an optional `?string $logArchiveDir` parameter. If set, this enables log archiving in the specified directory when the current log file exceeds 32 MB.

## Dependencies
- Now uses [`pocketmine/bedrock-block-upgrade-schema` version 4.0.0](https://github.com/pmmp/BedrockBlockUpgradeSchema/releases/tag/4.0.0).
- Now uses [`pmmp/ext-pmmpthread` version 6.1.0](https://github.com/pmmp/ext-pmmpthread/releases/tag/6.1.0).
- Now uses [`pocketmine/errorhandler` version 0.7.0](https://github.com/pmmp/ErrorHandler/releases/tag/0.7.0).
- Now uses [`pocketmine/raklib` version 1.1.0](https://github.com/pmmp/RakLib/releases/tag/1.1.0).
- Now uses [`pocketmine/raklib-ipc` version 1.0.0](https://github.com/pmmp/RakLibIpc/releases/tag/1.0.0).

## Internals
- (Re)Added support for RakLib packet ACK receipts. This was used to throttle resource pack sending and prevent network overloading.
  - Added `NetworkSession->sendDataPacketWithReceipt()` to make use of this feature.
  - `PacketSender` now requires an additional `?int $receiptId` parameter.
- `ResourcePackPacketHandler` now uses `sendDataPacketWithReceipt()` to send resource packs, and delays sending the next chunk until the current one is acknowledged.
- `ResourcePackPacketHandler` now accepts resource pack info directly in the constructor, instead of `ResourcePackManager`. This eases the implementation of `PlayerResourcePackOfferEvent`.
- Increased `ZlibCompressor::DEFAULT_MAX_DECOMPRESSION_SIZE` to 8 MB (previously 2 MB). While this weakens server security, it appears to be necessary to deal with extremely bloated Persona skins.
- Increased max split packet parts accepted by `RakLib` to 512 (previously 128). Again, this is necessary to deal with extremely bloated Persona skins.
- Added a new cache mechanism for `PocketMine-MP.phar`.
  - `ext-phar`'s default mechanism is extremely wasteful (generating a separate cache file per thread), and doesn't clean up after itself.
  - The new cache mechanism is shared between all threads, and automatically cleans up stale caches.
  - The phar stub (`build/server-phar-stub.php`) now converts the phar contents into a `.tar`, and decompresses all the files into `$TMPDIR/PocketMine-MP-phar-cache.<random>/`.
  - `phar://` URIs still work with this system, but `new Phar(__FILE__)` must be replaced by `new PharData(__FILE__)` within PocketMine-MP core code.
  - Backtraces from a `phar`'d server will now point to a location in the extracted phar cache, rather than the phar itself.
- `block_factory_consistency_check` test (actually for `RuntimeBlockStateRegistry`) now stores less data, and is no longer affected by changes to internal state ID construction.

# 5.14.1
Released 5th April 2024.

## Fixes
- Fixed incorrect `pmmpthread` version check in server bootstrap.
