# 5.2.0
Released 4th July 2023.

**For Minecraft: Bedrock Edition 1.20.0**

This is a minor technical update, including changes to AsyncTask error handling and support for BedrockBlockUpgradeSchema version 3.0.0.

**Plugin compatibility:** Plugins for previous 5.x versions will run unchanged on this release, unless they use internal APIs, reflection, or packages like the `pocketmine\network\mcpe`  or `pocketmine\data` namespace.
Do not update plugin minimum API versions unless you need new features added in this release.

**WARNING: If your plugin uses the `pocketmine\network\mcpe` namespace, you're not shielded by API change constraints.**
Consider using the `mcpe-protocol` directive in `plugin.yml` as a constraint if you're using packets directly.

## Core
- [BedrockBlockUpgradeSchema version 3.0.0](https://github.com/pmmp/BedrockBlockUpgradeSchema/releases/tag/3.0.0) is now supported.
- [`ext-pmmpthread` version 6.0.4](https://github.com/pmmp/ext-pmmpthread/releases/tag/6.0.4) is now required (bug fixes required to support technical changes in this release).

## Performance
- Improved performance of `AsyncPool->submitTask()` and `AsyncPool->submitTaskToWorker()`.
- Added new timings for `AsyncTask->onProgressUpdate()` and `AsyncTask->onCompletion()`.

## Gameplay
### Blocks
- Added the following new blocks:
  - Cherry Button
  - Cherry Door
  - Cherry Fence
  - Cherry Fence Gate
  - Cherry Leaves
  - Cherry Log
  - Cherry Planks
  - Cherry Pressure Plate
  - Cherry Sign
  - Cherry Slab
  - Cherry Stairs
  - Cherry Trapdoor
  - Cherry Wood
  - Glow Lichen
  - Piglin Head

## Tools
- `generate-block-upgrade-schema.php` now supports generating schemas a la BedrockBlockUpgradeSchema version 3.0.0, using `newFlattenedName` to reduce schema size.
- Improved property remapping detection in `generate-block-upgrade-schema.php`. It now detects related properties with more confidence (even when multiple properties were change), and no longer considers unrelated properties as mapped (e.g. `mapped_type` and `deprecated` in 1.9->1.10).

## API
### `pocketmine\data\bedrock\block`
- The following new API methods have been added:
  - `public BlockStateData->toVanillaNbt() : CompoundTag` - returns the NBT for the blockstate without any PMMP extra metadata (`toNbt()` will normally include a `PMMPDataVersion` tag).

### `pocketmine\data\runtime`
- The following new API methods have been added:
  - `public RuntimeDataDescriber->facingFlags(list<int> $faces) : void`

### `pocketmine\scheduler`
- `AsyncTask->onRun()` no longer tolerates uncaught exceptions.
  - This means that any uncaught exceptions thrown from `AsyncTask->onRun()` will now crash the worker thread, and by extension, the server.
  - This change makes it easier to debug errors by detecting them earlier.
- The following API methods have been deprecated:
  - `AsyncTask->onError()`

## Internals
- `AsyncTask->progressUpdates` is now lazily initialized when a task publishes a progress update.
  - This was previously not possible due to technical limitations of the `ext-pmmpthread` extension.
  - This change improves performance of `AsyncPool->submitTask()` and `AsyncPool->submitTaskToWorker()`, as well as reducing the amount of work needed to check for progress updates on tick.
- Errors in `AsyncWorker` now cascade and crash the whole server.
  - This makes it easier to debug errors by detecting them earlier.
  - This includes all types of unexpected errors, such as OOM, uncaught exceptions, etc.
  - This change is not expected to affect normal server operation, as worker threads are not expected to crash under normal circumstances.
- `AsyncTask::$threadLocalStorage` now uses a plain `array` instead of `ArrayObject`. The `ArrayObject` was a workaround for `ext-pthreads` to prevent thread-locals getting copied to the worker thread, and is no longer necessary.
- Regenerated `pocketmine\data\bedrock\item\ItemTypeNames` for Bedrock 1.20 (BC breaking, some item names have changed).
- Fixed `build/generate-item-type-names.php` not including some newer blockitems, such as doors and hanging signs.

# 5.2.1
Released 11th July 2023.

**This release includes changes from the following releases:**
- [4.22.3](https://github.com/pmmp/PocketMine-MP/blob/4.22.3/changelogs/4.22.md#4223) - Fixes for some crash issues

This release contains no other changes.
